In today's episode, I'm going to be
sharing with you eight secret or
underrated features that are hardly used
on Instagram, but can make a serious
difference in your growth, [music]
views, or engagement. Now, people are
always looking for the holy grail and
the secret cheat codes to blowing up and
going viral. And while these things that
I'm going to share with you in today's
episode might not be exactly that,
there's definitely at least a few of
these things that you either haven't
heard of before, haven't used recently,
or maybe haven't used ever. And so,
let's not waste any time. The first one
is broadcast channels. Broadcast
channels are essentially one-to-many
group chats where when you create one of
these channels, your followers, or
whatever group of followers you want to
set it to, can join the channel. And fun
fact, when you first start a broadcast
channel, it actually sends out a push
notification to all of your existing
followers inviting them to join the
channel. But like I said, it's a
one-to-many group chat, and so the power
of that is that every person who joins
the group can see the messages that you
send. They can react or vote or like or
emoji respond to any of the messages
that you send, but they can't actually
send messages themselves. That is a
powerful tool. It's quite similar to
email marketing but on your Instagram.
It's a way that you can send broadcasts
or messages out to tens, maybe hundreds,
maybe even thousands of people if that's
how many people you get to join your
broadcast channel, and get their
attention in the place where people
spend most of their time on Instagram,
which is the direct messages. People
spend more time in the DMs than they do
scrolling their feed or watching
stories, and so you can meet them where
they are and grab their attention in a
unique way. To start a broadcast channel
on Instagram, all you have to do is go
to your Instagram direct messages, click
on that little new message button in the
upper right-hand corner, and then select
broadcast channel. My five tips for
making your broadcast channels better
are: Number one, start with a clear
purpose. Have an intent behind your
broadcast channel. Basically, what are
all the messages going to be about? Why
should someone join? What's the benefit
in it for them? Once you have that
clear, that will help you with the
second tip, which is coming up with an
attention-grabbing name. Mine is called
Breaking Instagram News. My third tip
for your broadcast channel is rarely
sell  rarely send your own posts
in the channel. I think a mistake that a
lot of people make when they start a
broadcast channel is they just use it as
another way to tell people, "I made a
new post. Go check it out. I have a new
sale. Go buy this thing." And people
feel like they're just being sold to.
It's like if you flip to a TV channel
and it was nothing but commercials, you
wouldn't watch that TV channel for very
long. Tip number four, similar to tip
number three, is don't over send. This
is a broadcast channel. You don't want
to be broadcasting an important
announcement every single day of the
week, or even probably multiple days of
the week, because if people miss
consecutive messages, then they're going
to feel overwhelmed like they have to
catch up. I'm sure you've experienced
being in a group chat where you check
your phone and all of a sudden there's
47 or 407 unread messages all in a group
chat. It's like, "Oh my gosh, do I
really want to spend the next hour of my
life scrolling through all these and
catching up?" And so, prevent that by
not over sending in the broadcast
channel. Or, tip number five, use the
unsend feature. This is something that I
do all the time. I send a message in my
broadcast channel maybe once or twice a
week, but if there's messages that when
I go to send a new one, I look back and
say, "Uh, that one's not really
important anymore. That was not really
relevant. That's old news. That's a sale
that I was promoting that ended." I will
long press on the message and unsend it.
So, that when someone sees the new
message, they're not overwhelmed by
having 14 to get through, they only have
six to get through. But, with all that
being said, again, broadcast channels
can be a very powerful way to grab your
audience's attention, to let them know
when you do have a sale, or when you do
have a post that is important for them
to see. It can be a great way to just
engage your audience and create kind of
like an inner circle within your group
of followers. And again, it can be
really powerful for increasing your
views. The second underrated feature, or
under utilized feature is
collaborations. Collaborations represent
less than 3% of all posts on Instagram,
and yet collab posts are consistently
the best performing kind of post. The
best kind of post on Instagram is not a
reel, not a carousel, not a story, it's
a collab. Because collabs basically take
two audiences and combine them into one,
which could essentially double your
potential number of viewers. I think
there's two main reasons why we don't
see more collabs on Instagram. Number
one, people think collabs are just
between creator and brand, and that
couldn't be farther from the truth. In
fact, just a few weeks ago on my
Instagram, I posted about, "Hey, let's
all help each other find collabs.
Comment below and you can find someone
to collab with." I'll even link that
post down in the show notes below so
that you can look that post up and go to
the comment section and look for people
to collab with. But what I noticed in
scrolling through those comments was a
lot of times people were like, "I'm a
creator in insert niche and I'm looking
to collab with brands in my niche." I'm
a fitness creator and I'm looking to
collab with fitness brands. That's not
necessarily the only way to go about
collaborations. I think what you're
thinking of, if that's how you approach
collabs, is brand partnerships or brand
sponsorships or brand deals, different
names for the same thing. But that's not
necessarily what a collab is. A collab
is just two people posting together,
essentially. And so instead of looking
for brands and businesses to collaborate
with, I want you to look for other
creators who are just like you to
collaborate with. The only two criteria
that they need to meet are number one,
in a similar niche, it doesn't have to
be the exact same, but similar, and
number two, they have a similar amount
of engagement. Even if they have way
more or way less followers than you, if
they have a similar number of average
views or average engagement, that can be
a really successful collaboration. In
fact, some of my best performing posts
in the history of my Instagram are
collaborations with my quote unquote
compendlers, because I'm a firm believer
that all ships rise together. And so
when I collab with Marketing Harry on a
carousel or when I collab with Modern
Millie on a reel, it has serious viral
potential and we have both of our
creative minds coming together to
educate, to entertain, or to teach our
audience something. Feature number three
that is slept on on Instagram is trial
reels. Now, you do have to have 1,000
followers to get access to trial reels,
but for those of you who are like, "Uh I
have less than 1,000 followers. I don't
have trial reels." If you have less than
1,000 followers, every reel that you
post is basically a trial reel. Every
reel that you post is likely going to
reach a significant portion of people
who are not existing followers. And so,
if you have less than 1,000 followers,
approach every reel that you post as a
trial reel. But, for those of us who do
have trial reels, some general
guidelines is that the max that you can
post per day varies from account to
account with the low-end max being five
and the high-end max being 25 trial
reels per day. Additionally, you can no
longer duplicate trial reels. So, if
you've already posted something as a
normal reel or you've already posted it
as a trial reel, you cannot post that a
second time again as a trial reel. But,
there are some cheeky little ways that
you can work around this. You can
slightly zoom in on your reel by only
like 5% and Instagram won't necessarily
pick up that it is a duplicate trial
reel. You can also mirror the video and
that will get around the duplicate
detection system or you can speed it up
by just like half a percent or down by a
percent and your video will still be
understandable. It won't be like you're
talking in slow motion. It also won't be
like you're talking super fast. It will
still be understandable and yet the
duplicate detection system won't pick up
on it. But, when used correctly, trial
reels can absolutely be a game changer.
So, I will link up down in the
description below uh an entire episode
that I did about trial reels with the
latest tips, techniques, and strategies
for making the most of them. Slept on
hack number four is what I like to call
upcycling. Upcycling isn't necessarily a
feature that you can do on Instagram,
but it is the strategy that I teach of
taking any post, every post that you
have ever made and posting it again a
second time 90 days later and then
posting it a third time 90 days after
that. Should you only upcycle content
that has performed well? No, because I
believe that sometimes you're going to
have a post that doesn't perform well
the first time and the second time and
then the third time it goes viral.
Similarly, you might have a post that
goes viral the first time and then it
flops the second and third time. You
just never know. So, give every post
three opportunities. Post it three
times. Now, unfortunately, on Instagram,
this isn't very easy to do. Yes, there's
a repost button, but that's not what
we're talking about here and that
doesn't achieve the same results. So,
you're left with either option A, option
number one would be like save all of
your videos and all of your reels in
your camera roll and just like have a
mental clock that every 90 days you're
going to go back to your camera roll and
find that old video and post it again
and find the caption. It's really
overwhelming or you can do option B,
which is what I would recommend. It's
what I've been doing for five years,
which is use Metricool, today's video
sponsor, to duplicate your content and
schedule it for the future. And I've got
some super exciting news about
Metricool, which is the scheduling tool
that I have been using to schedule all
of my posts for the last five years. You
can finally do the number one thing that
everyone has been asking for, which is
you can access Instagram's music library
right in Metricool. For years, I've been
telling people, "Schedule all of your
posts in Metricool. That's what I do."
And then people will be like, "Well,
what about that one trending audio I
wanted to use? What about that one
specific audio, that one specific song
that has to go in this video or else the
video doesn't make sense? Brock, what do
I do there?" And I've been like, "Well,
you could try this workaround. You could
schedule it in Instagram, da da da da
da." Not anymore. Now, you can schedule
it in Metricool and you can attach the
audio from Instagram right then and
there. Best of all, Metricool has a
basic subscription, which is free to use
and allows you to schedule a certain
number of posts per month at no cost, or
you can try out their pro features,
their premium features with code Brock,
my name, b r o c k, and I will put that
in the show notes as well down below.
But, like I said, it's what I've been
using to schedule all of my posts. It's
also what I use to schedule some of my
stories. It's what I use to schedule my
trial reels. And now I can finally add
Instagram audio right then and there.
But, the way this relates to the idea of
upcycling is from now on, whenever you
make a post that is evergreen, that is a
post that would make sense today, would
make sense a few months from now, it's
not like time bound, it's not like, uh,
you know, tied to a specific season or
specific event that's occurring, you
can, as soon as you schedule it, or as
soon as you make it, press duplicate,
and then click forward by a few months,
like 90 days from now, and then pick a
new date in the future. That's exactly
what I do every single time I make a new
post, and then I just spot check once a
week. So, every single Saturday or
Sunday I can just go in, I can see what
my posts are going to be for the next 7
days. I can make sure that they all make
sense. I can make sure that none of them
are redundant or repetitive, or none of
them are just outdated. I can swap those
out if they are. I can move them to a
week in the future. I could delete the
post. I can edit it, whatever I want to
do. But, nine times out of 10, when I
look at my week, I already have 14 to 21
posts pre-scheduled, regardless of what
week it is in the future. The fifth
super under-utilized feature on
Instagram that can be a serious game
changer for increasing your views and
engagement is what is called a linked
reel. A linked reel, unfortunately, is
not the ability to add a clickable link
to your reels, but instead, it's the
ability to add an existing reel that you
or someone else has posted onto your
reel. So, as you're watching someone's
reel, there will be a little tiny
window, and if someone taps on that, it
will take you to the other reel. Now,
again, you could use this to promote
someone else's reels, but what we're
talking about here is promoting your own
reels. What we're talking about here is
getting more views and engagement on
your own reels. And so, four different
creative ways that I've seen Linked to
Reels used, and they are number one,
creating kind of like a menu, saying
like, "Hey, here are my five most recent
Reels. Here are my four Reels that are
relating to X topic." and putting that
as the entire Reel. Basically, this Reel
exists as a billboard to highlight these
other four Reels. Idea number two is a
curated collection. So, if you were
talking about a topic, maybe at the end
of your Reel, you could say, "Here's
three other Reels that go deeper on this
topic. Here's two other Reels where I
talk about this idea in more depth."
Idea number three, similarly, is next
steps. "Hey, you just got to the end of
this educational Reel, what should your
viewers do next?" Oh, well, they should
click on this Reel and go to the next
Reel so they can continue learning. They
can progress through this journey. Maybe
it's a multi-part series. Speaking of
series, that is number four. You can
link together Reels as part of a series
and create kind of like a playlist by
using this Linked to Reels feature. The
sixth underrated hack to growing on
Instagram is comment reply Reels. From
now on, whenever you get a comment,
specifically, a comment with a question,
with a hot take, or even a troll comment
on one of your posts, I don't want you
to just reply to the comment on the
post. I want you to click that little
tiny camera button that pops up when you
tap reply, and I want you to reply with
a Reel. This does a few things. Number
one, it's very engaging. It's very
dynamic, and it's unique from what we're
used to seeing in your Reels. Number
two, it's an excuse to talk about
whatever that comment is referencing
without having to say one of the most
dreaded lines on all of Instagram, which
is, "A lot of you have been asking. I
got a message asking about dot dot dot."
You don't have to say that anymore. You
can just point to the comment and
respond to it. And number three, it
helps train your audience, because when
they see that you are responding to
comments, and even responding to
comments with an entire Reel, it makes
them feel like there's more of a
dialogue, more of a conversation
happening, and it increases is
likelihood that they will comment on
that Reel and any reels that you post in
the future. And then the seventh secret
Instagram feature that you can use to
boost your views and engagement is the
add yours sticker on Instagram stories.
When you use the add yours sticker or
any version of the add yours stickers
because there are quite literally
hundreds of thousands if not millions of
different varieties, Instagram gives you
a little bit of preferential treatment
and it pushes your story out to more
people. That being both more followers
and this is actually a way that you can
reach more non-followers with Instagram
stories, which is usually something
that's rare or almost impossible to do.
And while you can technically create
your own add yours sticker, it's best to
use an already existing sticker. So, all
you have to do to access it is open up
your Instagram stories and then swipe up
or tap on the camera roll button in the
bottom left-hand corner and then rather
than selecting a photo or video from
your camera roll, up the top of the
screen select the button that says add
yours and then you'll see quite
literally hundreds of templates of
pre-made add your stories. Some of them
might not be applicable to your
business. In fact, I would say many of
them aren't going to be applicable to
your business or something that you want
to post about, but if you find one that
you could add yours to, that you could
add your own version of, that is one
that I would recommend using and add
yours stickers kind of operate the way
hashtags used to. And what I mean by
that is when you use an add yours
sticker, number one, you kind of lump
your story in or categorize your story
with everyone else who has used that
same sticker. So, it's a great way to
reach people who are using that same
sticker or to get discovered by people
who are looking at other people who have
used that sticker. But additionally,
Instagram gives you a little bit of
preferential treatment. Like I said, it
kind of boosts your views or helps you
reach more of your followers because
they want to reward you for using this
feature. It's a very interactive feature
and if you select an add yours sticker
that your followers see and And they
want to create their own, they want to
add their own version of this story,
then it can really have a multiplicative
effect and your Instagram story views
can really skyrocket because of it. The
eighth secret feature that I see hardly
anyone using, but it can be a really
powerful way to boost your Instagram is
what's called early access reels. Early
access reels are basically secret reels
that are only visible to your followers.
So basically, the way that early access
reels work is that when you post them,
they are visible to your existing
followers, but if any non-follower
clicks on your page, it will be kind of
blurred out and it will have a call to
action encouraging them to follow you in
order to see the reel. Now, you might
think, well, why would someone want to
see the reel? Wouldn't that only be
popular if I was like already a
celebrity? Maybe, but I think a really
powerful hack for early access reels is
that if you ever have a reel that's
going viral, or you ever have an influx
of profile visits, people visiting your
page, you can post a few of these early
access reels and it can kind of make it
like, "Ooh, I want to see what these
reels are." It makes the people who are
visiting your page more likely to want
to click follow because curiosity killed
the cat, right? It makes them curious to
want to see what it is you're posting.
It can also be a way to make your
existing followers feel bit more
special, a little bit more exclusive
because they're getting access to these
reels before anyone else. If you learned
anything new in today's episode, don't
forget to hit that thumbs up button and
I want to let you know that I literally,
personally, me, read every single
comment that is left on this page. So,
if you want to help this page and help
my mental health and help me enjoy
making these episodes for you, feel free
to leave a comment. If you have any sort
of feedback, if you have any episodes
that you want me to cover in the future,
any topics you want me to go deeper on,
feel free to leave it in the comments
and I would love to chat with you down
there because again, it's not an AI
responding, it's not a member of our
team, it is literally me reading and
responding to every single comment. So,
thank you so much for watching today,
and as always, [music] happy networking.
>> [music]
[music]